Understanding the modular architecture of RealityKit
Learn how everything fits together in RealityKit.
Overview
RealityKit is a 3D framework designed for building apps, games, and other immersive experiences. Although it’s built in an object-oriented language and uses object-oriented design principles, the architecture of RealityKit avoids heavy use of composition — where objects are built by adding instance variables that hold references to other objects — in favor of a modular design based on a paradigm called Entity Component System (ECS) that divides application objects into one of three types.
Following the ECS paradigm allows you to re-use the functionality contained in a component in many different entities, even if they have very different inheritance chains. Even if two objects have no common ancestors other than Entity, you can add the same components to both of them and give them the same behavior or functionality.
Start with entities
Entities are the core actors of RealityKit. Any object that you can put into a scene, whether visible or not, is an entity and must be a descendent of Entity. Entities can be 3D models, shape primitives, lights, or even invisible items like sound emitters or trigger volumes. Add components to entities to let them store additional state relevant to a specific type of functionality. Entities themselves contain relatively few properties: Nearly all entity state is stored on an entity’s components.
RealityKit provides a number of entity types you use to represent different kinds of objects. For example, a ModelEntity represents a 3D model, such as one imported from a .usdz or .reality file. These provided entities are essentially just an Entity with certain components already added to them. Adding a ModelComponent to an instance of Entity, for example, results in an entity with identical functionality to a ModelEntity.
Add components to entities
Components are modular building blocks that you add to an entity; they identify which entities a system will act on, and maintain the per-entity state that systems rely on. Components can contain logic, but limit component logic to code that validates its property values or sets its initial state. Use systems for any logic that affects the behavior of entities or that potentially changes their state on every frame. To add accessibility information to an entity, for example, add a AccessibilityComponent to it and populate its fields with the information the accessibility system needs, such as putting the description that VoiceOver reads into its label property.
Keep in mind that an entity can only hold one copy of any particular type of component at a time. So, for example, you can’t add two accessibility components to one entity. If you add an accessibility component to an entity that already has one, the new component replaces the previous one.
Create systems to implement entity behavior
A System contains code that RealityKit calls on every frame to implement a specific type of entity behavior or to update a particular type of entity state. Systems use components to store their entity-specific state and query for entities to act on by looking for ones with a specific component or combination of components.
For example, a game might have a damage system that monitors and updates the health of every entity that can be damaged or destroyed. Systems typically work together with one or more components, so that damage system might use a health component to keep track of how much damage each entity has taken and how much each one is able to take before it’s destroyed. It might also interact with other components. For example, an entity might have an armor component that provides protection to the entity, and the damage system would also need to use the state stored in that component.
Every frame, the damage system queries for entities that have the health component and updates values on those entities’ components based on the current state of the app. If an entity has taken too much damage, the system might trigger a specific animation or remove the entity from the scene.
Writing entity logic in a system avoids duplication of work. Using traditional OOP design patterns, where this type of logic would reside on the entity class, can often result in the same calculations being performed multiple times, once for every entity potentially affected. No matter how many entities the calculation potentially impacts the system only has to do the calculation once.
For more information on creating systems, see Implementing systems for entities in a scene
